[MUSIC]
One part of qualitative programming that
makes it incredibly useful and, is
one of the main reasons why it get used by
so many developers
in so many different languages and that is
something called inheritance which
is where you inherit properties,
attributes,
functions, methods, whatever, from a
parent class.
So, for example, we have [SOUND] a class
of animals.
[SOUND] And, eh, we'll just put in there,
some things that every animal can do.
So, eat, and that's gonna called self,
[SOUND]
and we're not going to do anything for
now.
We'll do def, [SOUND] again, and we'll do,
let's see, talk.
[SOUND] And we'll just keep it simple for
now, so we'll have just two of these.
So, [SOUND] now that we've got those two,
that's something that every single animal
can do.
However, [SOUND] if we were to, specify
more broadly,
so if I was to go, [SOUND] to cat.
And, then a cat can talk and the cat can
eat.
So, we can define.
I'll do talk.
And, I'll define all of these in more
depth in a few moments.
But also a cat can also
meet, no.
Let's see.
What can a cat do that's unique?
[BLANK_AUDIO]
Okay, I'll just leave this as undo move.
So that's obviously, it's not unique to a
cat,
but it's just an example of what we can
do.
This isn't something that you'd really
use object-oriented, and inheritance for
as such.
This is just to show you, what you can do
with it.
So as you can see here, now, we've got a
cat.
But we need to make it inherit animals.
So inside the parentheses here,.
We'll just do [SOUND] animals.
And, that will now, inherit all of its
properties from, animals and then do these
as well.
So, where we have eat, we'll just do
print, [SOUND] and we'll output, I can
eat.
[SOUND] And for talk, we'll print, [SOUND]
I can talk, then for
talk, [SOUND] for the cat, we're going to
do, [SOUND] meow.
And for move, [SOUND] we'll print that and
we'll say, I can move.
So this is all very, very trivial.
And, pretty pointless to be honest.
But it shows [UNKNOWN] standing and give
you an understanding of what inheritance
will do.
So, now if I create
[SOUND] If I do muffin is equal to cat.
And then, just do muffin.talk.
[SOUND] And if we run this, we will get,
meow.
So even though we inherited the talk from,
the animals class.
Because we are overwriting it, within our
cat
class, which is the one which is the
child.
class, we now get the output of meow,
there
is a way to overrun this, and what we
can do is we can do muffin.super.talk,
[SOUND] and
what this will do is it goes to,
superclass, oh.
[SOUND].
Hm.
So what we're going to do, is we're going
to muffin is
equal to cat, [SOUND] and here we are
calling the cat back.
[SOUND] So what I'm going to is muffin,
[SOUND] is equal to cat.
And then if we do muffin.talk, [SOUND]
then, we run this, we'll get meow.
The reason why we get meow and not muffin
talk
is because we are overwriting it within
the cat class.
So the parent class, which is animals.
Has all the actual values.
Such as eat and talk set, but they are
default values.
But if we are to, over-write them in
our, a class which we call afterwards,
which is,
now talk, cap sorry, and then we
over-write the
talk, we now get the output from the talk.
Instead of the output from, previous.
So, what we're going to do with this, is
allows us to have everything
that say an animal can do, which is eat,
talk, move, sleep, and so on.
And then we can do, any specific things,
outside of that.
So, if I was to call.
[SOUND] Muffin.move and also muffin.eat,
you'll
see, that we inherit both the, the default
for eat,
which isn't required explicit within our
talk our cat
class and, of course, we inherit move
which is explicitly
within our cat class, but not within our
parent class.
So the cat is the child and the animals is
the, parent class, and this allows
us to, like I've mentioned, to just,
expand upon something that has
already been set, so for example, now if I
was to create, say, a dog class.
[SOUND] And like.
And that extends animals as well, or
inherits animals.
Then do talk.
[SOUND] Then print, and can do wolf.
Simple?
And now if I was to, create a dog,
and I'll call this one sky equal [SOUND]
to dog.
And then do, sky.talk.
And you'll see that what we get now, is
woof.
So we get woof, meow, cuz we're calling,
the dog one first, then the cat.
So we've got woof, meow.
And then we've got, the cat's move and
that cat's eat as well.
If you were to create say, a dog and you
didn't want it to
do anything inside it, you just wanted it
to be called, [SOUND] then you type
in the keyword pass and that will, just
simply mean that you created it, and
there's nothing inside it, so it inherits
everything from the, parent class and
nothing else.
And so, pass will make it so everything
that is inside the animals class.
It's inside the, dog class however nothing
else is being, put in
there explicitly and so, instead of woof
we now get I can talk.
Which is the default value for talk.
[SOUND] So thank you for watching.
That is everything to do with classes.
So, hopefully you understand it all
properly.
If not just go back and read the summarize
videos, [SOUND] and I'll see you in the
next video.
[MUSIC]